hack homeleness ideas

Issue 1
How might we help people living in wealthier neighborhoods to accept alternative and affordable housing solutions being built in their own backyards? How might we encourage NIMBYs, who proclaim to support affordable housing solutions, connect those beliefs to tangible actions in their own neighborhoods?
Pain Point: Many NIMBYs claim to want to help solve homelessness and the housing crisis in the Bay Area. At the same time, they contribute to some of the problems that perpetuate homelessness by opposing solutions that would create more affordable housing in their own neighborhoods. The perceived personal inconveniences that would result from more affordable housing can prevent this group of NIMBYs, who want to help end homelessness, from following through with their own beliefs.

Possible solutions

Build apartment complexies with differential rent prices.  People who are wealthier will pay more

Build mini homes

Work with govts in different cities and help relocate people to different parts of the country


Issue 2: Eviction

Description
Eviction is the reason cited by 13% of those surveyed for why they became homeless in San Francisco in 2019. There are many issues between roommates, housemates, tenants and landlords that cause housing conflict. Some of them may be resolved through dispute resolution mechanisms (such as the SF Bar’s Conflict Intervention Service), which may allow a tenant to stay housed. If left unresolved, these disputes will often end in a lawsuit seeking eviction (called unlawful detainer suits) filed in CA Superior Court, and a Notice of Eviction issued to a tenant.

According to the 2020 Annual Report on Eviction Notices, during the period from March 1, 2019 through February 2020, a total of 1,442 eviction notices were filed in the City of San Francisco.  Unfortunately, upon delivery of an eviction notice, the impacted tenant is faced with an extremely challenging and expedited legal process. Evictions are costly in time, money, and other resources for the tenant, for the service providers who help them, and for the legal system in general.

How might we ensure tenants can respond to an eviction notice even if they cannot obtain legal help?
Pain Point: Tenants who are being evicted likely have never gone through the process before. They are not prepared and have very little time to react - only 5 days. The process is fast and complicated, and missing a step can have severe consequences for the tenant. Many tenants lose their lawsuit, and in California, around 40% of tenants automatically lose by getting a default judgment for not filing their forms correctly.

How might we help renters access information about eviction so they can better understand their rights and protections? Specifically, how might we connect renters with information about the California Covid-19 Tenant Relief Act so that they can stay in their homes?
Pain Point: Renters at risk of eviction or who have received an eviction notice may be able to stay in their homes due to state and local protections. However, not all renters are aware of these protections or feel comfortable advocating for their rights. Even if they are aware of these protections, they are often uncertain how to comply with them.

How might we increase renters’ access to the various resources available in order to better match restrictive funding or dedicated programs to tenants who need them?
Pain Point: Many renters are unaware of the services available to them or which organizations can best serve their particular needs. Connecting with a service provider may help renters achieve a positive outcome and allows providers to use the critical funding necessary to ensure a fully supported funding cycle for the next year.

How might we make tenants’ rights information more accessible to the average person?
Pain Point: There are many great resources available about the eviction process (provided by local governments, non-profit organizations, and more), but they are not always accessible to the average person. Recent immigrants, seniors, and single parents are part of the various groups that can struggle with language barriers, technology, or a lack of time to research the information they need. 

Possible solutions


Have a city renters app that users can download.  

It would link to different pieces of information
- rights as a tenant in simple terms and different languages
- actions to take if eviction notice is served

resources
- access to lawyers
- where to store things
-



Issue 3: Stolen Belongings

Description
The Fourth Amendment of the Constitution protects “[t]he right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures.” However, people experiencing homelessness often have no secure location to store their personal belongings. The City of San Francisco conducts sweeps and has policies in place to specify under what conditions city officials may collect unattended personal items. However, the City regularly breaks its own rules when conducting sweeps by trashing personal belongings and threatening to send people to jail if they do not also city workers to take everything. Once personal items are taken, it is usually difficult or impossible to retrieve them.

How might we create a safe, secure public space for people experiencing homelessness to store their belongings in order to prevent them from losing important personal items in the sweeps?
Pain Point: Unhoused individuals face substantial financial and emotional setbacks in meeting their basic needs as a result of the sweeps conducted by the City of San Francisco. City officials have an interest in ensuring that unhoused individuals do not face further setbacks, as that only perpetuates homelessness. The current City policy focuses on cleaning the streets, which means that the City does not view unhoused individuals as people who need the City’s help, but rather as a burden and hindrance for the City.

How might we create a system for homeless individuals to quickly mobilize themselves and their essential belongings to avoid being targeted by a sweep?
Pain Point: Under city policy, the city must give 72 hour notice before a sweep, and leave a notice behind for 24 hours when they do. However, city workers routinely break this policy and do not allow homeless individuals enough time to gather their belongings in advance of a sweep.

How might we improve the tagging system so that people experiencing homelessness can recover their items after city sweeps? How might we ensure the safe return of personal belongings seized in city sweeps? 
Pain Point: There is no viable way for unhoused individuals to track where their items go after a sweep. Even though belongings are supposed to be tagged and inventoried, city employees

How might we design an enforcement system for officials conducting encampment sweeps in order to prevent them from breaking the law?
Pain Point: Although the city outlines policies for encampment sweeps, there are no repercussions for city employees who throw out personal items collected from a sweep or who steal and resell these items later. 


Solutions
- item drop off and pick up zones
- End to end storage systems (Pick up and drop off, storage)
- Low cost storage solutions
- Sotre items with rfid or take photos of items and store them in the cloud

Issue 4: Zoning

Description
Zoning regulations determine how land can be used in San Francisco, and zoning law is often mentioned as a leading cause of the unaffordable housing prices in the Bay Area. The regulations in the San Francisco Planning Code can specify the size and shape of buildings, limit the number of units on a property, require off-street car or bicycle parking, and much more. 

Overly restrictive zoning makes it difficult for developers to build new housing, which drives up rent prices. The lack of new development in wealthier neighborhoods puts pressure on less wealthy neighborhoods, which often leads to lower-income families being displaced from their communities. The lack of affordable housing, including permanent supportive housing, is cited as a leading cause of the growing homeless population in the Bay Area.

How might we help families unable to afford increasing rent prices throughout San Francisco to remain in the city near their employment and schools, as well as their relatives and friends?
Pain Point: As the pressures of new development are placed on already distressed neighborhoods, lower-income families increasingly cannot afford to stay in the city. As a result of restrictive zoning laws (which only accommodate high-income individuals and families), lower-income families are often displaced from their work, schools, families, and friends.

How might we help lawmakers better collaborate with communities to prevent the proliferation of socioeconomically homogeneous neighborhoods in San Francisco?
Pain Point: Legislatures are increasingly influenced by powerful, wealthy voices on the for-profit side for housing, which directly affects low-income families’ ability to live in the city and remain with their communities.

Soltuions
- Have a zoning decision tool which can take in different information and show potential 
- work with differnet cities to move people to places with affordable housing
