---------------------
Objective
---------------------
These are challenging times, with the COVID-19 pandemic bringing many businesses and societies to a grinding halt. Life after the pandemic will not be the same, with every industry looking for news ways to operate more efficiently and become more resilient.

Robotic Process Automation can help both mitigate disruption and drive greater operational efficiency by interconnecting people and systems, and enabling businesses to better serve their customers in these times of uncertainty. Automation Anywhere provides tools and solutions that help organizations navigate these unprecedented circumstances.

We believe that technologists have a large role to play in helping businesses remain viable and enduring. Let’s come together as a community to build solutions that aid those affected by COVID-19. Sign up for this hackathon, and put your knowledge of business processes and bot building skills to work to address real problems around the world!


--------------------
Themes
--------------------

Healthcare and insurance
banking and finance
employee care and productivity
governance and administration
travel, supply chain and logistics
other

---------------------
Resources
---------------------
https://aai-covid19-botathon.devpost.com/details/resources

---------------------
Judging critieria
---------------------
Impact
Impact of automation on the real problems being faced around the world.
Comprehensiveness
Does the automation comprehensively address the problem it sets to solve?
Platform Use
Solutions making use of Enterprise A2019 will receive additional points.
Resiliency
Does the automation adapt to changes in an environment where it is deployed or behavior of the user?
Reusability
Is the automation built with modularity and reusability in mind?

---------------------
Possible ideas
---------------------
appointment booking - https://www.shopify.ca/partners/blog/shopify-app-challenge-winners
delivery scheduling - droptimize - https://www.shopify.ca/partners/blog/shopify-app-challenge-winners
Recipes by BentoSMB  - https://www.shopify.ca/partners/blog/shopify-app-challenge-winners
Zip Code Check & Waiting List by Avocados Lab - https://www.shopify.ca/partners/blog/shopify-app-challenge-winners

NumbersBot - Price: $9.99/month
NumbersBot gives you easy access to your store’s data on the go. Ask about your sales, conversions, average cart value, and more. Every day, NumbersBot follows up with you via Facebook Messenger or Telegram with current sales reports and suggestions. It also learns from you—the more you interact with the app, the more reports it can provide to you via a simple chat.

Skill matrix bot that helps organize and keep up to date employees skill matrixes. Who can do what and at what level?
Job candidate hunting chatbot that helps you to find and manager candidates using multiple data sources and a chat platform.
Interview process management bot. Helps you to organize and manage interviews of a candidate.
Job advertisement performance monitoring and alerting with graphics.
Job satisfaction bot that collects, aggregates and reports job satisfaction by employees.
Vacation assistant helps you to update all systems that you are away, set up autoresponders, change presences, remind you to write a holiday report etc.
Team playbook bot provides your team plays to solve issues.

Budget monitoring chatbot helps you set and monitor a budget. Would be cool if it connects to systems that report expenses, so it is fully automated.

Expert finder helps you get to somebody who may provide you with some expertise.

Department KPI reporting and monitoring chatbot.

Physical activities reminder randomly selects an exercise and asks you to do it.

Pomodoro bot marks your status busy when you work.

Mindfulness bot helps you and your team to be mindful.

Networking mate that randomly schedules lunches or coffee with people you don’t know or may have common interests.

Motivation and inspirational chatbot. Sometimes we need to put some quotes in a presentation.

Legal reviews assistant.

Company public facts database bot that helps you remember them and monitors internal and external system for non-compliance.

Translation bot that helps you translate between languages. Would be cool if it does it on the fly.


Final ideas
Department KPI reporting and monitoring chatbot. (Use excel file to host data)
Pomodoro bot marks your status busy when you work.
NumbersBot - Price: $9.99/month
NumbersBot gives you easy access to your store’s data on the go. Ask about your sales, conversions, average cart value, and more. Every day, NumbersBot follows up with you via Facebook Messenger or Telegram with current sales reports and suggestions. It also learns from you—the more you interact with the app, the more reports it can provide to you via a simple chat.

---------------------
Due Date - June 3, 2020
---------------------
Add ideas - 1 day

Select idea and design - 1 day

Built bot - 1 day

Verify bot built matches judging criteria 1 day

Test bot and submit 2 days



---------------------
Way of winning
---------------------
Sumbit ideas - https://aai-covid19-botathon.devpost.com/details/ideas
Build bots for 5000 USD prize based on themes, focused on requirements and meets all the judging ritier


---------------------
Requirements
---------------------
Code: A publicly-accessible URL to the exported bot files. We encourage using a public GitHub repository and sharing the URL to that.

Submission Form: Mention the theme you have chosen, your idea, implementation and potential impact on the submission form for the hackathon. Also include this as a README file as a part of the code submission.

Video: A short video (less than 3 minutes) demonstrating the working of your bot

Also, please note:

Multiple submissions: You can submit multiple projects to the Botathon, as a part of the same team or a different team. However, you are eligible to win only a single prize.

Re-submission/editing of submissions: You can re-submit or edit your submission until the submission deadline. Your latest version of a submission before the deadline will be considered for judging.
