Hackathon for social good

Objective
1: Provide greater insights into the COVID-19 pandemic
With the current concerns over SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19, there are now available various COVID-19 datasets on Databricks, Kaggle and GitHub as well as competitions such as the COVID-19 Open Research Dataset Challenge (CORD-19). Diving into these datasets and joining this with other public sources may provide greater insight into the correlations, causes, or potential solutions to logistics issues (e.g. PPE utilization, hospital readmission rates, ICU bed availability, etc.). 

2. Reduce the Impact of Climate Change
Does Greta Thunberg inspire you to help preserve the planet?  Write an application or perform an analysis that gives insights into the causes or solutions for climate change.


3: Drive Social Change in your Community
What challenges do you see where you live and work? Check out a local city dataset and affect change close to home.

STEPS
Step 1. BUILD YOUR DATA TEAM.  Your team can have up to 4 participants and must be registered <> as participating in the hackathon.

Step 2: Create a compelling analysis or build an application.

Create a compelling analysis of data that helps us understand the “world’s toughest problems” above in new and unique ways. Analysis should be done in a Databricks or Jupyter notebook and use technologies covered in Spark+AI Summit talks (see agenda here).

OR

Build an application which allows end-users to understand data around the “world’s toughest problems” described above. This could allow users to run queries, build visualizations (maps, charts, graphs, etc), read or otherwise explore the data. 

Step 3: Record a video screencast (<= 280 seconds) demonstrating the workbook or application, providing commentary answering the following questions:

Why did you choose this topic?
Explain your dataset selection
How does your project help or might help solve these problems?
Step 4: Submit the video + notebook source (github link) to the challenge.


JUDGING CRITERIA
 judging criteria (weighted equally): creativity, usefulness, relevance to category, quality of written and video explanation and visual presentation, and thoroughness

Quality of Dataset Selection
How have you combined relevant and interesting datasets as part of your analysis or application?
Originality
Has this been done before, or is this a new and original idea?
Completeness
Your analysis or application is easy for the end user to understand, and it provides relevant and insightful information. Your submission follows the challenge requirements.
Application of Relevant technologies
You’re using technologies presented at Spark + AI Summit in an interesting and meaningful way.